README.md, before:

# Chat App Homework

A very simple chat app in Node.JS, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Does not use any framework.

Server is a very simple websocket broadcast server that also tracks usernames to prevent impersonation and conflicts.

Client is a simple JS app that works cross-browser and provides a nice user interface.

# Running

Clone this repo and

```console
npm i && npm test
```

Alternately, [see the demo](http://boogeh.com)

# Features

- [X] Chat page
- [X] Settings page
- [X] Responsive layout across all devices
- [X] Works on latest Chrome, Firefox and Safari
- [X] Chat tab blinking title with unread count
- [X] Working settings for username, color scheme, clock display, and send hotkey.
- [X] Design based on mockups
- [X] No automatic code generation tools used
- [X] Clean, small, modular code
- [X] Working code 
- [X] Tests main functionality of members joining and leaving, and sending messages

# Things that are different

- No optional features. My focus was keeping it simple.
- No React. No framework at all. I requested this and it was okayed.
- No need for CSS preprocessors (CSS here is very simple).
- No need for TypeScript. I used `tsc --checkJs` to check for issues and fixed any. 
- No need for state management. 

# Development Notes

- Most bugs that occured were not type related bugs but due to cross-browser differnces in CSS, layout.
- Adding explicit types would only take more typing and lengthen this homework assignment for no good reason. 
- Adding React would also be unnecessary. This is a simple app, with small components and only 2 routes. There's no need for added complexity. Also, it was related to me that 'no framework would be best IMO'.
- Adding CSS preprocessors would also be unnecessary, the CSS is very simple.

Commit message:

Add test and refactor
- "Added render test"
- "Remove autofocus and drawComposerFocus

It just doesn't seem necessary. Plus on device, autofocus makes IME opening annoying. Leave it to user to specify via their own intent."

README.md, after:

# Chat App Homework

A very simple chat app in Node.JS, JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Does not use any framework.

Server is a very simple websocket broadcast server that also tracks usernames to prevent impersonation and conflicts.

Client is a simple JS app that works cross-browser and provides a nice user interface.

# Running

Clone this repo and

```console
npm i && npm test
```

Alternately, [see the demo](http://boogeh.com)

# Features

- [X] Chat page
- [X] Settings page
- [X] Responsive layout across all devices
- [X] Works on latest Chrome, Firefox and Safari
- [X] Chat tab blinking title with unread count
- [X] Working settings for username, color scheme, clock display, and send hotkey.
- [X] Design based on mockups
- [X] No automatic code generation tools used
- [X] Clean, small, modular code
- [X] Working code 
- [X] Tests main functionality of members joining and leaving, and sending messages

# Things that are different

- No optional features. My focus is keeping it simple.
- No React, no framework at all. I requested this and it was okayed.
- No CSS preprocessors. CSS here is very simple.
- No TypeScript. I used `tsc --checkJs` to check for issues and fixed any. 
- No complex state management. 

# Development Philosophy

In this project I tried to do the following things:

- Keep it simple
- Merge state updates into a single state object and render the whole view tree from that on every change.

# Development Notes

- The simple render (like immediate mode GUI) that I use here had some issues at high refresh rates.
- If messages arrived quickly, and you were typing your own message, then because the textarea was being replaced at every render,
often your keystrokes for input were getting lost. To solve this, I broke the 'render the whole tree' when we receive a message, 
and instead just insert the message to the end of the `<ul>`
- Most bugs that occured were not type related bugs but due to cross-browser differnces in CSS, layout.
- Adding explicit types would only take more typing and lengthen this homework assignment for no good reason. 
- Adding React would also be unnecessary. This is a simple app, with small components and only 2 routes. There's no need for added complexity. Also, it was related to me that 'no framework would be best IMO'.
- Adding CSS preprocessors would also be unnecessary, the CSS is very simple.
